# Introduction #
The Forensic Scanner was designed with flexibility in mind.  In order to use the tool to scan an acquired image (regardless of format), you first need to mount the image as a volume, preferably read-only.

## Mounting Images ##
There are several ways to mount a volume, using tools like [FTK Imager](http://accessdata.com/support/product-downloads), or by using [vhdtool](http://archive.msdn.microsoft.com/vhdtool) to modify the image file so that it can be attached to your Windows 7 analysis system.

The Forensic Scanner was designed to access and retrieve data from the logical files within the volume, much in the same manner that an analyst would during the initial information gathering phase of an examination.  This design decision allows for considerable flexibility; for example, live systems accessed remotely via Matthew Shannon's [F-Response](http://www.f-response.com/) tool can be scanned using the scanner.  If an acquired image is from a Vista or later system, and the image is mounted in the appropriate manner, available Volume Shadow Copies (VSCs) can also be mounted and scanned using the Scanner.

## Scanning ##
The Forensic Scanner requires two primary arguments in order to function; the path to the _system32_ directory for the image being scanned, and the path to the directory where the report and log files will be written.

The scanning performed by the Scanner consists of two phases.  The first phase involves initial information collection, where the analyst identifies the path to the _system32_ directory within the volume, and the report output directory.  Once the first phase is initiated, the scanner collects information identifying the version of the Windows operating system being scanned, and the location of the user profiles (based on their _normal_ location within the file system).  Once this phase is complete, the available user profiles are provided to the analyst so that she can choose which ones to scan.

Once the analyst selects which user profiles to scan, and initiates the second phase of the scan, several things occur automatically.  First, all of the available plugins are read, and those identified for use with the version of Windows are selected.  The selection criteria for version 1.0 of the scanner includes the version of Windows being scanned, and the output format of the plugin (report).

The plugins are then sorted first by their class; the two classes are "system" and "user".  Those plugins in the "system" class are run only once, against the resources available for the overall system.  The "user" class of plugins are run against each selected user profile; they may be run several times.

Finally, the plugins are sorted within each class based on their "category" fields (defined within the configuration hash of the plugin).  This allows all plugins of a particular category to be run together, so that the output of the plugins appear grouped together in the respective report file.  For plugins that are identified by the author as belonging to several categories, the scanner will run them only once, for the first identified category.  These plugins will be noted in the log file generated by the scanner that they were not run consecutive times.

The output of the scan consists of report files containing the output of plugins run against the system and each user profile, as well as a log file that contains information identifying the system that was scanned, as well as a report of each plugin run against the mounted image.